# Kai's Portfolio
## Week 1 (1/31 - 2/7)
During our January 31st meeting, our group brainstormed and discussed various methods for computing the [Convex Hull](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convex_hull) for a set of 2d vectors. We discovered methods for computing the convex hull that fall under two general categories: angles-based and distance-based. My contribution was an angles-based one similar in format to the [Gift Wrapping Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gift_wrapping_algorithm), though with the help of my group members and mentors we managed to approach the [Quickhull](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quickhull) algorithm, which is significantly more clever and has cheap `O(n log(n))` time complexity. I am particularly interested in how the quickhull algorithm abstracts into higher dimensions and I'll research how others achieved this in the past. This week I aim to complete an implementation of both the 2d and 3d quickhull algorithms, with my developing an understanding of Python's graphics libraries an ancillary objective.

Today is 2/3, and I've completed my lightly-debugged, unoptimized first draft of the 2d quickhull code. I have found challenges in two main areas: dealing with Stack Overflow and dealing with Python. From my research I knew generally what form my code should take, but for the `aboveLine` and `furthestP` functions I opted to take strip formulas from Stack Overflow instead of creating them by myself. This, however, turned out to be a mistake, as one of my biggest challenges was trying to debug the `furthestP` function. The bigger challenge actually ended up being dealing with the Python interpreter. I constantly kept getting `TypeError`s and `IndexError`s, and I blame this on [Dynamic Typing](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1517670). That is, if I had to assign the intended variable types and array sizes myself (like I would in C++, Java, or Rust), errors with types and indecies likely wouldn't get past me so easily. That said, I have found myself rather liking the simplicity and abstraction (maybe over-abstraction?) of Python's syntax.
