# Mitansh's Portfolio
## Week 1 (1/31 - 2/7)
1/1/2024
This week, we talked extensively about possible approaches to algorithms to instruct a computer to spit out a convex hull when given an array of points. What was particularly interesting to me was the process we used, with the group brainstorming and coming up with ideas, followed by attempting to poke holes in the algorithm we had come up with and discussing edge cases where we might fail. 
A specifically intriguing idea was to construct a line parallel to the x-axis, passing through the top-most point and rotating it (or finding the least perpendicular distance of the other points to that line). This approach, while workable, was not the most efficient, with a high time-complexity (worst case O(n^2)). Another approach was to split the points into four quadrants, as on a graph, and find the border points in each of those quadrants, thus reducing the number of points required to be compared to the "chosen" points, and less computations required. However, this approach failed for certain edge cases, such as when a quadrant had one point which had no "extremal values", when compared to the other points. 
We also discussed universal edge cases, such as if all the points are collinear. In this case, the parallel line idea would be efficient, with a time complexity of O(n) and the convex hull would look like a line joining all the points. Another edge case was the case of an array of length 3, which would form a triangle in all cases. We decided the most efficient way to deal with this would be include an if statement to check if the length of an array was 3, then check if the points were collinear, and return either a line or a triangle. 
Before meeting next week, I will be looking at possible ways we could actually code the most efficient algorithm we discussed, Quick Hull, or at least write some pseudocode and research packages that could easier allow me to compute the shortest distance between a point and a line. Currently, I'm thinking defining a function that computes the shortest distance between points using vector dot products might be the best way to approach that particular problem. 
